The fifth installment of the Pirates-series is by all means a step up from the fourth. In all film-series, when a sequel is released it's mandatory to compare it to the best one - which in this case arguably everyone agrees is the first one. That may be unfair, but it's the reality. Now.Pirates of the Caribbean: Salazar's Revenge does give us some spectacular moments. The visual effects really is astonishing, and some of the scenes is beyond anything I have ever seen before. That's impressing. But that's not why I like Pirates of the Caribbean. What I expect (hope) from a Pirates-film is elegant and witty dialog, compelling sea- battles and Jack Sparrow on fire. And this last bit I think is the biggest reason why this one fails to deliver. In my opinion, Johnny Depp has lost his way as captain Jack. And I think that's natural, after all, it's been 13 years since he first portrait the character. He's gotten older and that really shows. This, combined with a really poor script, regarding Jack at least, makes it all fall apart. Half the time he's completely drunk (really drunk, not just usual Jack-tipsy) and half the time he tells bad jokes which really is beneath a genius character like Jack Sparrow. The film starts on a positive note. I had good hopes that it could go somewhere, but mid- way through the story starts to split up and it didn't really have a good rhythm to it. In addition I think there are a lot of characters that just don't do anything to the story or adds humor or dynamic. The decision to bring back Orlando Bloom to play Will Turner is fundamentally a good one, but I'm so disappointed with he's involvement in the film. It seems Disney only took him back to promote the film and lure old fans back for more. If he's to be involved, he should have a major role. Javier Bardem does a good job as villain, but nothing I will remember him by. All in all, I would say that I am disappointed. I didn't have huge expectations to begin with, but where I thought the film would deliver, it just didn't. Basically it's a film for the technical wizards to show how much they can do in terms of visual effects , and they can do a lot. It's just not what I want.
Of course Pirates is a great concept, with exact the right music. But in this version 'Salazar's revenge' there is a lack of content, despite a lot of very nice special effects. (I liked the safe-deposit-part very much!) It is a pity, because there are such a great stories in Caribbean history. The Amsterdam archives have enough to discover and uncover. Of course, the makers have their own excuse 'dead men tell no tales'. So how could we blame them?
The humor was sophomoric.. I can't believe some of the lines being delivered by the actors. I guess if you're getting paid millions you'll concede to saying anything. 
Could have been done so much better. Lazy writing. Lazy plot.. but I guess some audiences will fall for this. They will serve a certain demographic.. unfortunately it's not mine.
I had the good fortune of viewing this documentary at a screening organized for friends of some of the folks involved in putting the film together. I had a bit of an appreciation for the Grateful Dead prior to viewing this film, but now I have a newly discovered fascination with the Dead, and feel like I could easily and happily be a Dead Head! I think this film is extraordinarily important as it chronicles one of the most iconic bands in history, in a way that has never been done before. I wholeheartedly recommend this film.